OVERHAUL /docs/components/customization/user-profile (#751)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/components/customization/user-profile.mdx

---
title: Add custom pages and links to the <UserProfile /> component
description: Learn how to add custom pages and include external links within the navigation sidebar of the <UserProfile /> component.
---

# Add custom pages and links to the `<UserProfile />` component

The [`<UserProfile />`](/docs/components/user/user-profile) component supports the addition of custom pages and use of external links in the navigation sidebar.

There are two ways to render the `<UserProfile />` component:

> - As a modal that opens when the [`<UserButton />`](/docs/components/user/user-button) is clicked

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- As a modal that opens when the [`<UserButton />`](/docs/components/user/user-button) is clicked.
```
Didn't see anything in the styleguide, but do we add periods to the ends of bullet points? I've been doing it in all my PRs

Author: no periods.
https://www.instructionalsolutions.com/blog/bulleted-list-punctuation#:~:text=Use%20a%20period%20after%20a,bullet%20lists%20or%20all%20fragments.

Reviewer: @JacobMGEvans I first saw periods at the ends of lists in Clerk's docs 🙃. But glad we have clarity now

- As a dedicated page

> This guide includes examples for both use cases. You can select the tabs on the code examples to see the implementation for your preferred use case.
> 
> By default, the `<UserButton />` sets `userProfileMode='modal'`. If you are using the default settings, then you should use the `<UserButton />` examples. However, if you are using the  `userProfileMode='navigation'` and `userProfileUrl='/user-profile'` props on the `<UserButton />` component, then you should use the `Dedicated page` examples.

Author: Do we like this better??

```suggestion
This guide includes examples for both use cases. You can select one of the following two tabs on the code examples to see the implementation for your preferred use case:

- `<UserButton />` tab: By default, the `<UserButton />` sets `userProfileMode='modal'`. If you are using the default settings, then you should select this tab.
- `Dedicated page` tab: If you do not want the `<UserProfile />` to open as a modal, then you should select this tab. For these examples, you need to set `userProfileMode='navigation'` and `userProfileUrl='/user-profile'` on the `<UserButton />` component.
```

Reviewer: Yeah, I think this is a little easier to read

> For the sake of this guide, examples are written for Next.js App Router but they are supported by any React meta framework, such as Remix or Gatsby.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the sake of this guide, examples are written for Next.js App Router, but they are supported by any React meta framework, such as Remix or Gatsby.
```

---
title: Add custom pages and links to the <UserProfile /> component
description: Learn how to add custom pages and include external links within the navigation sidebar of the <UserProfile /> component.
---

# Add custom pages and links to the `<UserProfile />` component

The [`<UserProfile />`](/docs/components/user/user-profile) component supports the addition of custom pages and use of external links in the navigation sidebar.

There are two ways to render the `<UserProfile />` component:
- As a modal that opens when the [`<UserButton />`](/docs/components/user/user-button) is clicked
- As a dedicated page

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Both can be accessed when the user selects their avatar, then selects *Manage account**.

```

While testing the code I didn't immediately know how to see the profile page

    return (
      <svg
        xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"
        viewBox="0 0 512 512"
        fill="currentColor"
      >
        <path d="M256 512A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512z" />
      </svg>
    )
  }

  const UserProfilePage = () => (
    <UserProfile path="/user-profile" routing="path">
      <UserProfile.Link
        label="Homepage"
        labelIcon={<DotIcon />}
        url="/"
      />
    </UserProfile>
  );

  export default UserProfilePage;
  ```

  ```tsx filename="/app/components/Header.tsx"
  "use client";

  import { UserButton } from "@clerk/nextjs";

  const DotIcon = () => {
    return (
      <svg
        xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"
        viewBox="0 0 512 512"
        fill="currentColor"
      >
        <path d="M256 512A256 256 0 1 0 256 0a256 256 0 1 0 0 512z" />
      </svg>
    )
  }

  const Header = () => (
    <header>
      <UserButton afterSignOutUrl='/'>
        <UserButton.UserProfileLink
          label="Homepage"
          url="/"
          labelIcon={<DotIcon />}
        />
      </UserButton>
    </header>
  );

  export default Header;
  ```
</CodeBlockTabs>

## Advanced use cases

### Reorder default routes

> If you want to reorder the default routes (`Account` and `Security`) in the `<UserProfile />` navigation sidebar, you can use the `<UserProfile.Page />` component with the `label` prop set to `'account'` or `'security'`. This will target the existing default page and allow you to rearrange it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to reorder the default routes (`Account` and `Security`) in the `<UserProfile />` navigation sidebar, add two `<UserProfile.Page />` components. each with the `label` prop set to either `'account'` or `'security'`. The order in which you render them will be the order in which they appear.
```

My suggestion may not be right, but I didn't quite understand this when I first read it. I _think_ what's happening here is you can label each `<UserProfile.Page>` and adjust the order by swapping their position. If that's so, it might help to say that more explicitly. Would love another opinion though as well cc @jescalan @royanger

Reviewer 2: >`<UserProfile.Page />` components.
You added a period after the components, preceded by "each with"

Author: just updated the copy - lmk what you think!

Note that the first item in the navigation sidebar cannot be a `<UserProfile.Link />` or `<UserButton.UserProfileLink />` component.

<Tabs type="usage" items={["Dedicated Page", "<UserButton />"]}>
  <Tab>

>     It's important to note that the first page in the list will always be rendered under the root path that you set with the `path` prop. It's `url` prop will be ignored, so you can pass any value you want. In the following example, `path` is set to `/user-profile`, so the `<CustomPage />` is rendered under the `/user-profile` path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Callout type="info">
The first page in the list will always be rendered under the root path defined with the `path` prop. Its `url` prop will be ignored.
    
In the following example, `path` is set to `/user-profile`, so the `<CustomPage />` is rendered under the `/user-profile` path.
</Callout>
```

May not necessarily need to be a callout, but I think it would look a little better. Also shortened it a bit as it looks a little intimidating in the preview to switch to the Dedicated Page tab and see a whole new paragraph IMO
